In a breakthrough for exoplanet research and open science, the new Kepler K2 Mission is delivering telemetered time-domain imaging data on tens of thousands of stars in each of a dozen survey fields to the public (essentially) as soon as the data have been telemetered down by the Spacecraft. Here we propose to build on this openness by creating   The Ketu Catalog, an exoplanet catalog built from (or updated by) every K2 Campaign data set as soon as possible after each Campaign data release. Importantly, we will also release the catalog, a completeness   analysis, all the code, and every update to any of these} to the community immediately upon creation, as we did with a pilot catalog made from K2 Campaign 1 data. We will also use The Ketu Catalog and our expertise in hierarchical probabilistic modeling to produce a noise-marginalized, completeness-corrected (and geometry-corrected) inference of the true distribution of exoplanets, given the K2 and Kepler Main Mission data.

In its basic form, The Ketu Catalog is built by brute-force search for periodic transit signals. The special technology that makes it very sensitive is that the search is done with simultaneous fitting of spacecraft artifacts and stellar variability}, both of which are treated as noise sources and marginalized out. Along with a catalog of significant exoplanet detections, The Ketu Catalog comes with a completeness analysis (false negative rate as a function of exoplanet properties), generated by injecting realistic artificial signals into the raw data and searching for them. 

Over the course of the project, we propose to pursue a set of enhancements and improvements to the catalog-generation methods} and software. The menu of improvements includes new data-driven methods for creating spacecraft artifact models, new models for stochastic and quasi-periodic stellar variability, new machine-learning methods that obviate hand-vetting of catalog results, and new physical models of the spacecraft focal plane to improve photometry. As we develop these enhancements, they will be propagated into annual re-processings and re-releases of the catalog, completeness analysis, and code.

There are several high-level goals for The Ketu Catalog. One is to provide targets for follow-up and discovery of interesting, rare, or important exoplanet systems. Our high-level goal is to understand exoplanet populations}. As we did with Kepler Main Mission data, we will use The Ketu Catalog and its associated completeness analysis to perform an inference of the true (completeness-corrected, noise-deconvolved, and geometry-corrected) exoplanet population. Our technology here is hierarchical probabilistic modeling}, with which we have been pioneers in the astrophysics community.

All software used in this project will be made public under an open-source license and maintained in public git repositories on NYU servers and also with a reliable open-source vendor.
